NUMBERS...

1. Match any digit in the following line: 

1 5 8 ؜٣؜ ٦ ؜٨ ؜ ٥ ۵


2. Match all years in the 18th century: 

756
1756
1856
156
1777
1878


3. An OpenITI author URI contains exactly 4 digits followed by a transcripton of the name of the author in CamelCase (without spaces or normal characters). Match the correct URIs. 

310Tabari
0310Tabari
0310al-Tabari
0310.al-Tabari
0255Al-Jahiz
0255Jahiz
0000anonymous
0255الطبري


4. Match all English words in this document (but not the Arabic ones): 



CAPTURING


1. Capture the names of the participants in the workshop and reformat them to first name last name: 

Alam, Anjum
Barber, Mathew
Bowen Savant, Sarah
Jaques, Kevin
Loynes, Simon Peter
Nigst, Lorenz
Qurboniev, Aslisho
Vandenbossche, Gowaart
Verkinderen, Peter


2. Palindromes: a palindrome is a word that can be flipped and still looks the same (like radar). Write a regex that can match any 4- or 5-letter palindrome. 

redivider, deified, civic, radar, level, rotor, kayak, reviver, racecar, redder, madam, refer, ...






FUN WITH TABARI



1. Open the Tabari text in the repository in EditPadPro


2. match all headings of the second level (### ||): 


3. Replace all double line breaks with single line breaks. 


4. Emulate the highlighting scheme: 
   write a regex that highlights titles of all levels (not only the tags): 
   write a regex that highlights the beginning of a paragraph



4. Hemistychs are marked with "..." in the text; but the mARkdown standard is to use "%~%". Replace the "..." with the standard pattern.


4. Match all occurrences of سلام (but make sure you're not matching اسلام)


5. Match all occurrences of anna/inna (not li'anna!)


6. Match all perfect forms of the eighth form (iftaʿala) of the verb manaʿa


7. Match all verbal forms of the eighth form of the same verb.


8. Make sure the page numbers all follow the following pattern: PageVxxPxxx           


9. Match all words that follow the mishmish pattern (C1C2C1C2)


10. A new year in Tabari's Tarikh starts with the words "thumma dakhalat sana". Capture (!) the page numbers on which a new year starts. 

11. Write a regex that captures all persons in al-Ṭabarī whose father's name was Muḥammad. 









MORE COMPLEX EXERCISES: 


1. Write a regex that matches any spelled-out number

2. Write a pattern that detects end rhyme in subsequent verses: 


3. Write a pattern that detects an ABAB end rhyme scheme. 


4. Write a regex that matches any spelled-out number (wāḥid, ithnayn, etc.)


5. Write an isnad highlighter (some naivité is allowed) 



6. write a regex that highlights named entities that consist of one word and are preceded by a one-letter prefix (as described in the OpenITI mARkdown page: https://alraqmiyyat.github.io/mARkdown/)


7. write a regex that highlights named entities that consist of two word and are preceded by a one-letter prefix (as described in the OpenITI mARkdown page: https://alraqmiyyat.github.io/mARkdown/)







